# Public Health SQL Analysis Project

## Project Description
This repository hosts the SQL scripts and data models developed for a public health project focused on analyzing simulated patient data. The project utilizes data generated by Synthea to simulate realistic healthcare scenarios for SQL query practice and data analysis, specifically targeting vaccination rates and disease outbreaks in Texas.

## Getting Started
These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites
What you need to install the software and how to install them:

* SQL Server (or any other relational database management system that supports SQL)
* Any SQL client (e.g., DBeaver, SQL Server Management Studio)
* Download and install Synthea for generating synthetic patient data

### Installation
A step-by-step series of examples that tell you how to get a development environment running:

1. **Clone the repository** to your local machine:
```
   git clone https://github.com/lrbonsu/public-health-sql-project.git
```
2. **Generate your synthetic dataset** using Synthea. First, if you don't already have Synthea, download and set it up by following the instructions on their official GitHub page: [Synthea on GitHub](https://github.com/synthetichealth/synthea). Here’s the command to generate data with the specified parameters:
```
java -jar synthea-with-dependencies.jar -p 1000 -a 12-51 -g F Texas --exporter.fhir.export false --exporter.csv.export true
```
3. **Import the generated CSV files** from Synthea into your SQL database.
4. **Run the SQL scripts** provided in the `/sql_scripts` folder to create the schema and tables.

## Usage
Examples of how to use the system for common tasks:

* **Basic Data Retrieval**: Refer to the basic_queries.sql script.
* **Data Aggregation**: Check aggregation_queries.sql for examples on aggregating patient data for insights.
* **Complex Joins**: Use join_queries.sql to understand relationships between different data tables.

## Acknowledgments
* Thanks to Synthea for providing a means to generate realistic healthcare datasets.
